This week marked another tragic milestone in our fight against COVID-19. More than 3000 deaths in one single day, the highest single death count during this pandemic. That’s more deaths in a single day than we saw on 9/11 or Pearl Harbor, this is serious business. And the current director of the CDC said yesterday, “We can expect the similar numbers of death or more every single day for the next 60 to 90 days.” We’re in a teeth for crisis right now and this nation needs presidential leadership right now, a presidential leadership that is willing to model the steps we should be taking to save our own lives and lives of our families.
We can wish this away but we have to face it head on, we have to take it head on. Using every power available to me as president, we’ll have a national coordinated strategy that will beat this virus. And as tough as things are now I firmly believe better days are ahead. We’ve got some good news was yesterday. The FDA Committee, I should say, recommended emergency use authorization for Pfizer’s BioiNTech COVID-19 vaccine, but we’re grateful for the scientists not only there but other great organizations, researchers to develop this vaccine and several others on the way.
And we’re just as grateful to the scientists and the public experts who evaluated its safety and efficiency free from political influence. I want to make it clear to the public, you should have confidence in this. There is no political influence, these are first-rate scientists taking their time looking at all of the elements that need to be looked at. Scientific integrity led us to this point.
We know the immense challenges and hard work ahead. Earlier this week, I announced our COVID response team that will scale up the manufacturing, distribution, and injection of the vaccine. We set a bold and doable challenge in my first 100 days, 100 million shots in 100 days, asking the American people to wear masks for the first 100 days of our administration. Now, if we get the necessary funding from Congress we can get most of our schools open in 100 days but we need the help from the Congress and the funding the first 100 days won’t end the COVID-19 but meeting those goals can slow the spread, save lives and get us back to our lives with the people we love the most. And we’ll also be getting the right people confirmed during this period of time and in place to manage robust, aggressive plan to contain the virus, help us build back better than ever and make sure everyone is included.
Now today, I’m really pleased to add members to my team that will get the job done. In addition to the pandemic’s grim milestone the economic crisis has left millions of Americans out of work, without a paycheck, without health insurance. Unable to put enough food on the table, literally unable to put food on the table, and unsure whether they can pay their rent when the new year begins, or make their mortgage payments. It’s affecting everyone from farmers to students, seniors to veterans, in red states, blue states, small towns and big cities.
And that’s why the Congress needs to act and act now on the COVID package. I spoke to my two friends who are still in the Congress, the vice-president and the soon to be secretary have heard. We have to get this done, they’re pushing hard. But it doesn’t look so good right now, but it has to get done before they go home. Millions and millions of Americans simply can’t wait any longer. We shouldn’t, we can’t get bogged down in issues that don’t help people. State and local governments need help. Not only that, as I said for months we need to protect essential personnel like law enforcement, firefighters, to make sure everything is in place and effectively distribute with the vaccine so that we can do that. This relief package won’t be at the total answer even if it gets passed but it’s an important first step. There’s so much we have to do.
These crises have ripped the blinders right off the systemic racism that exists in America, the American people now can see clearly. Black, Latino, Native American are nearly three times more are likely to die from COVID and more likely to get COVID to begin with. Black and Latino unemployment rates too large, too high. Communities of color are left to ask whether they’ll ever be able to break the cycle where in good times they like, in bad times they’re hit first and the hardest and in recovery they take the longest to bounce back.
vice president-elect Harris and I knew we have our work cut out for us when we got elected but we also knew we could build a team that would meet this unique and challenging moment in American history. Some are familiar faces, some are new in their roles. All are facing new circumstances and challenges. That’s a good thing. They bring deep experience and bold new thinking. Above all, they know how government should and can work for all Americans.
For Secretary of Agriculture I nominate Tom Vilsack, an outstanding two-term governor of Iowa. The best secretary of agriculture I believe this has ever had. He was there when the great recession was pummeling rural America. Over eight years he oversaw a record-breaking investment to bring us back. He implemented the Recovery Act to help rural communities recover and rebuild. Tom helped expand markets around the world for American farmers. He improved our food safety standards and helped millions of children and families receive healthy meals.
He wasn’t anxious to come back, he wasn’t looking for this job but I was persistent. And I asked him to serve again in this role because he knows the USDA inside and out, he knows the government inside and out. We need that experience now. One in six Americans and a quarter, a quarter of the children in America are facing hungry. The opioid crisis in rural America is a rural America crisis, as is the climate crisis with droughts, floods, wiping out crops in small towns. Farmers and small businesses in small towns, rural communities, white, black, Latino are reeling from the pandemic and economic downturn.
Tom knows the full range of resources available to this department to get immediate relief to those most in need and address the crises, not one, the crises facing rural America. He knows how to build back better for all Americans. He helped develop my rural plan for America in the campaign and he now has the dubious distinction of having to carry it out. It’s a good plan. That includes making American agriculture the first in the world to achieve net zero emissions and create new sources of income for farmers in the process by paying farmers to put their land in conservation, plant cover crops that use the soil to capture carbon. And he will ensure that USDA promotes true racial equality and inclusion. He recognizes the history of discrimination and will root it out wherever it exists. I’ve known Tom for a long time and I’m confident he’ll get it done.
For Secretary of Housing and Urban Development I am really pleased to nominate Congressman Marcia Fudge. I might add you could do many jobs beyond the one I’m asking you to do but I think the job I’m asking you to do Congresswoman is critically important to everything that the vice president and I believe is how we’re going to build back better. As a former mayor she understands how to manage challenges and forge solutions at a local level. For 12 years in Congress she’s represented the great City of Cleveland. Though I think of her most significant political feat was being elected President of Deltas. I know from this day how powerful the Deltas are. You think I’m kidding, I’m not.
She developed an entire career for fighting for working people on issues from affordable housing to urban revitalization. During the great recession, her district was hit hard by the housing crisis. She spent the past decade working to improve blighted neighborhoods, create safer, more affordable communities. She also understands where you live impacts on your health, access to education, jobs, and economic opportunity. Zip code should not determine the outcomes on all those issues. She’s going to bring that same vision as HUD Secretary using every lever at her disposal to help the millions of Americans facing evictions, trying to pay for their mortgages, to find their way through this crisis.
And I think you’ll see that she’s going to lead our charge to make housing more affordable and accessible. She worked to increase home ownership as a means towards wealth generation. Particularly for communities of color it’s not just dealing with the other issues, we have to be able to build wealth in communities of color. And she’s also going to help us build back better by working across the ideological spectrum to fulfill the promise of HUD’s mission.
And here’s what its mission is, it’s often forgotten, “To create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality, affordable homes for all.” Marcia will be the first woman to lead HUD for more than 40 years and just the second black woman ever. I’m honored to have her serve and thank her for being willing to do it in the Biden-Harris administration at this critical moment in our nation’s history.
And for Secretary of Veteran Affairs I nominate Denis McDonough, former White House Chief of Staff, Deputy National Security Advisor, deep experience on Capitol Hill. I’ve known Dennis for a long time. He shares my belief that we have many obligations as a nation. We have only one truly sacred obligation, to prepare and equip our troops that we send into harm’s way and then to care for them and their families when they return. He regularly traveled as I did to Iraq and Afghanistan to meet directly with our service members, to see what they were going through, to understand the strain and the impact on them and their families.
He visits them as I did often at Walter Reed to see firsthand the visible and invisible wounds they brought home. He knows the cost of war on veterans and their families. From the toll on their physical and mental health, to the access to good-paying jobs. And he’s a fierce advocate and a relentless workhorse and I believe and I think everyone who has ever worked with him knows he’s a world-class manager with an…
I think everyone who’s ever worked with him knows he’s a world-class manager with an innate understanding for how government can and must work for our veterans. He worked closely with our then VA secretary, Bob McDonald, and with the Congress to increase VA funding to ensure veterans get the benefits they earned and they deserve. And by the way, he knows, we have a very, very steep hill to climb in getting more funding, more docs, more psychiatric nurses, more folks out of the private sector into, into the VA. That includes implementing Veterans Choice, a bill led by my friend, Bernie Sanders, and my late friend and American hero, John McCain, and signed into law by President Obama in 2014 to help veterans access quality healthcare that they need when they need it. And this role, I’ve given Dennis a clear mission, fight like hell. Fight like hell for our veterans and their families.
And anyone who has worked with Dennis will tell you, he’ll move heaven and earth to fix any problem, to get the job done. He’ll also work closely with our secretary of defense designated, Lloyd Austin, and the entire cabinet and Jill as first lady to pull every lever to help us build back the VA better than ever. And Dennis, it’s a family endeavor. His wife, Carrie, leads a nonprofit that helps connect veterans and military families with local communities so they can help each other out and build a stronger country together. Both our spouses feel incredibly strongly about this and have for some time. To all the veterans and military families, nominating a VA secretary is one of the most important decisions I believe a president can make, and Dennis will always be there for you, I promise you, always fighting for you, as will the vice-president and I.
For the United States Trade Representative, I’ve nominated Katherine Thai, a trusted trade expert, a dedicated public servant who knows government and who’s spent her career leveling the playing field for American workers and their families. That’s not hyperbole, that’s a fact. She currently serves as the chief lawyer on trade for the powerful House Ways and Means Committee. She earned praise for both lawmakers and both political parties and from both labor and business as well. Now that’s a feat across the board, but all kidding aside, you have. I’ve gotten more calls complimented me on your appointment than you can imagine. During the Obama-Biden administration, she was the chief trade enforcer against unfair trade practices by China, which will be a key priority in the Biden-Harris administration.
She understands that we need to be considerably more strategic than we’ve been in how we trade and that makes us all stronger, how we’re made stronger by trade. One that leaves nobody behind. She’s going to work closely with my economic and national security and foreign policy teams. Trade will be a critical pillar in our ability to build back better and carry out our foreign policy, foreign policy for the middle class. When I announced my candidacy, I talked about a foreign policy for the middle class, and I meant that in the literal sense. She also brings a sophisticated understanding of the threats of climate change to trade as well as addresses the climate crisis with urgency. She also embodies a powerful immigration story of America. Her parents were both born in China. They moved to Taiwan and then came to the United States where Katherine was born.
Her parents became government scientists at Walter Reed and NIH, inspiring their daughter to pursue a career in public service. Katherine says she’s the first American born member of her family and a second generation US government servant. That’s a great way of expressing it. If confirmed, she’d be the first Asian American and the first woman of color to serve in this position. In our nation, our economy, our workers, our businesses, we are fortunate to have her serve in this role. As director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, I spent some time convincing this wonderful public servant, but I’m appointing Susan Rice, former United States ambassador to the United Nations, former national security advisor to President Obama, former cabinet member, team player, policy heavyweight, tough negotiator, and trusted and tested public servant, who I’ve known for a long time and not only admired, but become friends with.
She’ll lead and coordinate my critical domestic policy agenda and she’s going to elevate and turbocharge, revitalize domestic policy council to help us build back better on every issue across the board. She worked closely with my director of National Economic Council, Brian Deese. She worked closely with my national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, and the national security council. Together, they’ll align domestic policy, economic policy and national security unlike ever before. This is a big and critical role, that’s why I asked Susan to serve. She’s been there. She knows what it takes like she did in helping mobilize the entire federal government to end the Ebola crisis, and her voice is particularly needed this critical moment. A granddaughter of immigrants, a descendant of enslaved people, Susan will be an effective and tireless champion for all Americans. And she knows I’m really thrilled she was willing to come back, be at my side in the White House.
To each of you on this team, you have my gratitude, the gratitude of the vice-president and me for answering the call to serve again. To your families, thank you. We know the sacrifice you’re making to allow your family member to serve as they are going to, God willing. And to career civil servants at these agencies, we look forward to working with you because we know how many talented people are there. It’s time to rededicate ourselves to the mission our government agencies were entrusted with. And to the American people, help is on the way. I promise we’re not going to let you down now. May God bless you and may God protect our troops. Now I’m going to turn this over to the team, starting with our next Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack. Tom, thank you. The podium is yours. I guess they’re going to clean it up.
Good evening, my fellow Americans. Over the past few weeks, officials in each state, commonwealth, and district, without regard to party or political preference have certified their winning candidate. Today, the members of the Electoral College representing the certified winner, cast their votes for President and Vice President of the United States in an act just as old as our nation itself. And once again in America, the rule of law, our Constitution and the will of the people prevailed. Our democracy pushed, tested, threatened, proved to be resilient, true and strong. The Electoral College votes which occurred today effect the fact that even in the face of a public health crisis unlike anything we’ve experienced in our lifetime, the people voted. They voted in record numbers. More Americans voted this year than have ever voted in the history of the United States of America. Over 155 million Americans were determined to have their voices heard and their votes counted. In the start of this pandemic, this crisis, many were wondering how many Americans would actually vote at all. But those fears proved to be unfounded. We saw something very few predicted, even thought possible, the biggest voter turnout in the history of the United States of America, a number so big that this election now ranks as the clearest demonstration of the true will of the American people, one of the most amazing demonstrations of civic duty we’ve ever seen in our country.
It should be celebrated, not attacked. More than 81 million of those votes were casts for me and Vice President-elect Harris. That too is a record. More than any ticket has received in the history of America. It represents a winning margin of more than seven million votes over the number of votes cast for my opponent. Together, the Vice President-elect Harris and I earned 306 electoral votes, well exceeding the 270 electoral votes needed to secure victory. 306 electoral votes is the same number of electoral votes that Donald Trump and Vice President Pence received when they won in 2016, excuse me. At the time, President Trump calls the Electoral College tally a landslide. By his own standards. These numbers represented a clear victory then, and I respectfully suggest they do so now. If anyone didn’t know before, they know now. What beats deep in the hearts of the American people is this, democracy, the right to be heard, to have your vote counted, to choose leaders of this nation, to govern ourselves.
In America, politicians don’t take power, people grant power to them. The flame of democracy was lit in this nation a long time ago. And we now know nothing, not even a pandemic or an abuse of power can extinguish that flame. And as the people kept it a flame, so too did courageous state and local officials, and election workers. American democracy works because America makes it work at a local level. One of the extraordinary things we saw this year was that every day Americans, our friends and our neighbors, often volunteers, Democrats, Republicans, Independents, demonstrating absolute courage, they showed a deep and unwavering faith in and a commitment to the law. They did their duty in the face of the pandemic. And then they could not and would not give credence to what they knew was not true. They knew this election was overseen, was overseen by them. It was honest, it was free and it was fair.
They saw it with their own eyes and they wouldn’t be bullied into saying anything different. It was truly remarkable because so many of these patriotic Americans are subject to so much, enormous political pressure, verbal abuse, and even threats of physical violence. While we all wish that our fellow Americans in these positions will always show such courage and commitment to free and fair elections, it is my sincere hope we never again see anyone subjected to the kind of threats and abuse we saw in this election. It’s simply unconscionable. We owe these public servants a debt of gratitude. They didn’t seek the spotlight, and our democracy survived because of them, which is proof once more that it’s everyday America and infused with honor, character and decency that is the heart of this nation.
You know, in this election, their integrity was matched by their strength, independence, and the integrity of our judicial system. In America, when questions are raised about the legitimacy of any election, those questions are resolved through the legal processes. And that’s precisely what happened here. The Trump campaign brought dozens and dozens and dozens of legal challenges to test the result. They were heard again and again, and each of the time they were heard, they were found to be without merit. Time and again, President Trump’s lawyers presented arguments to state officials, state legislatures, state and federal courts, and ultimately to the United States Supreme Court twice. They were heard by more than 80 judges across this country. And in every case, no cause or evidence was found to reverse or question or dispute the results.
A few states went for recounts. All the counts were confirmed. The results in Georgia were counted three times. It didn’t change the outcome. The recount conducted Wisconsin actually saw our margin grow. The margin we had in Michigan was 14 times the margin President Trump won that state by four years ago. Our margin in Pennsylvania was nearly twice the size of the Trump margin four years ago. And yet none of this has stopped baseless claims about the legitimacy of the results.
Even more stunning, 17 Republican Attorneys General, and 126 Republican members of the Congress, actually, they actually signed onto a lawsuit filed by the state of Texas. That lawsuit asked the United States Supreme Court to reject the certified vote counts in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. This legal maneuver was an effort by elected officials and one group of states to try to get the Supreme Court to wipe out the votes of more than 20 million Americans in other states. And to hand the presidency to a candidate who lost the Electoral College, lost the popular vote, and lost each and every one of the states whose votes they were trying to reverse.
It’s a position so extreme, we’ve never seen it before. And position that refused to respect the will of the people, refused to respect the rule of law, and refused to honor our Constitution. Thankfully, a unanimous Supreme Court immediately and completely rejected this effort. The Court sent a clear signal to President Trump that they would be no part of an unprecedented assault on our democracy. Every single avenue was made available to President Trump to contest the results. He took full advantage of each and every one of those avenues. President Trump was denied no course of action he wanted to take. He took his case to Republican governors and Republican Secretary of State as he criticized many of them, to Republican state legislature, to Republican appointed judges at every level. And then the case decided after the Supreme Court’s latest rejection, a judge appointed by President Trump wrote, “This court has allowed the plaintiff the chance to make his case and he has lost on the merits.” Lost on the merits.Even President Trump’s own cybersecurity chief, overseeing our elections, said it was the most secure election in American history, and summarily is let go. Let me say it again. His own cybersecurity chief overseeing this election said it was the most secure in American history.You know, respecting the will of the people is at the heart of our democracy, even we find those results hard to accept. But that’s the obligation of those who’ve taken on a sworn duty to uphold the Constitution. Four years ago, when I was a sitting Vice President of the United States, it was my responsibility to announce the tally of the Electoral College votes of the joint session of Congress, had voted to elect Donald Trump. I did my job. And I’m pleased but not surprised by the number of my former Republican colleagues in the Senate who have acknowledged already the results of the Electoral College. I thank them. And I’m convinced we can work together for the good of the nation on many subjects. That’s the duty owed to the people, to our Constitution, to our history.
You know, in this battle for the soul of America, democracy prevailed. We the people voted, faith in our institutions held, the integrity of our elections remains intact. And now it’s time to turn the page as we’ve done throughout our history, to unite, to heal. As I said in this campaign, I will be president for all Americans. I’ll work just as hard for those of who you didn’t vote for me as I will for those who did. There’s urgent work in front of us. Getting this pandemic under control and getting the nation vaccinated against this virus, delivering immediate economic help so badly needed by so many Americans who are hurting today, and then building our economy back better than it ever was.
In doing so, we need to work together to give each other a chance to lower the temperature. And most of all, we need to stand in solidarity as fellow Americans, to see each other, our pain, our struggles, our hopes, and our dreams. We’re a great nation. We’re good people. We may come from different places, hold different beliefs, but we share in common a love for this country, a belief in its limitless possibilities. For we, the United States of America, has always set the example for the world for a peaceful transition of power. We’ll do so again. I know the task before us won’t be easy. It’s tempered by the pain so many of us are feeling.
Today, our nation passed a grim milestone, 300,000 deaths to this COVID virus. My heart goes out to each of you in this dark winter of the pandemic, about to spend the holidays and the new year with a black hole in your hearts, without the ones you loved at your side. My heart goes out to all of you who have fallen on hard times through no fault of your own, unable to sleep at night, staring at the ceiling, weighed down by the worry of what tomorrow will bring for you and equally important for your family.
But we faced difficult times before in our history. I know we’ll get through this one, but together. That’s how we get through it together. So as we start the hard work to be done, may this moment give us a strength to rebuild this house of ours upon a rock that can never be washed away. As in the Prayer of St. Francis, for where there is discord, union, where there is doubt, faith where there is darkness, light. This is who we are as a nation. This is the America we love and that is the America we’re going to be. So thank you all and may God bless you. And may God protect our troops and all of those who stand watch over our democracy. Thank you.
Thanks for the congratulations, appreciate it.
Thank you.
